The President:
Hi, everybody.
This Labor Day weekend,
as we gather with
family and friends,
we'll also come
together as a nation
to honor some of our own -
the working men and
women of America
who, across the generations,
built this country up
and helped make us
who we are today.
On Monday, we'll celebrate
that proud history.
We'll pay tribute to the values
working Americans embody -
hard work; responsibility;
sacrifice;
looking out for one another.
And we'll recommit
ourselves to their cause;
to securing for them a better
bargain so that everyone
who works hard in America
has a chance to get ahead.
See, over the past
four and a half years,
we've fought our way back
from the worst recession
of our lifetimes.
And thanks to the grit
and resilience
of the American people,
we've begun to lay
a foundation for stronger,
more durable economic growth.
But as any working
family will tell you,
we're not where we need to be.
For over a decade,
working Americans
have seen their wages
and incomes stagnate,
even as corporate
profits soar
and the pay of a
fortunate few explodes.
For even longer than that,
inequality has steadily risen;
the journey of upward
mobility has become harder.
And in too many communities
across this country,
the shadow of poverty
continues to cast a pall
over our fellow citizens.
Reversing that trend needs to be
Washington's highest priority.
And it sure is mine.
That's why, over the past month,
I've traveled
all across America,
laying out my ideas
for how we can build
on the cornerstones of what
it means to be middle class.
A good job that
pays a good wage.
A good education.
A home of your own.
Health care when you get sick.
A secure retirement
even if you're not rich.
And more chances for
folks to earn their way
into the middle class
as long as they're
willing to work for it.
The truth is, it's not
going to be easy to reverse
the forces that have
conspired - for decades -
against working Americans.
But if we take
a few bold steps -
and if Washington
is able to come together
with common purpose
and common resolve -
we'll get there.
Our economy will keep getting
stronger and more Americans
will be able to join the ranks
of the middle-class.
So this Labor Day,
while you're out there
grilling in the backyard,
or taking that final
trip for the summer,
I hope you'll also
take a moment to reflect
on the many contributions
of our working men and women.
For generations, it was the
great American middle class
that made our economy
the envy of the world.
And as long as I'm President,
I'm going to keep fighting
to make sure
that happens again.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.